Now that we're able to store orders for the user,
let's add a new method to the user model to also get orders
and this will be a method we need to make
our orders page work again. Now getting orders is pretty straightforward,
we reach out to our orders collection here and then we need to find all orders for the given user and oh,
how do we do that?
Well there's one thing which we forgot
right
when adding orders, our orders right now contain the content of the cart but no information about the
user to which they belong
and that is something we need to change
first of all. So let's pause
getting orders for now and let's tweak our add order function here.
We insert one order and right now the orders only are a cart.
Well this is not the entire truth, right,
we also need information about the user,
so let's create a new constant order in here which is the object we actually want to save
and in there we certainly want to have the items,
so we want to have the cart items in there, that is for sure. But we also want to have some information
about the user and for this
I'll add an embedded document where I add the id and here, I want to create a new objectid based on this
ID, so on the ID of the user
we're working with but I also want to store the name which we have as a property here and the email.
So here I will duplicate data because this will then end up in the orders collection and in the users
collection
but I don't care too much about this because the data I have been here, the user data I have in here might
change for sure but it doesn't need to be updated on all the orders because if you had like processed
and open orders, for all processed orders, you wouldn't care too much if the user email changed because
you might not need to touch it there
and of course if you do care, you can always get rid of all the data.
So now even if the user name would change, I could be fine with not changing it here and only in the
users collection.
I also want to store more information about my products by the way because right now, my items are really
just the product IDs
but the idea was that we have more information about our products than just their IDs. To be precise
when we have a look at our orders.ejs file, here
I also output the product title for example and you could argue you also want to show the price. So storing
some extra information would be useful too,
therefore we also need to work on this cart items again and we need to fetch some data from our products
database,
so we need to tweak that add order method a bit more.
Now we learned how to fetch product information with get cart, there
we actually get a cart with enriched information about all products.
So actually what we can do is in add order, I can first of all call this get cart and then add then to
work with the data get cart gives me,
so with my updated products. So inside then here, I get my cart products and these products will have
all the product information along with the quantity
and I then create my order inside of that then block,
so once I know that I have that products data because outside of that then block, the code would execute
too early.
And then my items here will be my products,
so an array of products with the product information and the quantity,
so now the product information will also be part of the order.
And here I really don't care about that information changing because if it should change, for orders
we need a snapshot anyways,
if the price of a product changes, that doesn't affect the past order,
so there we wouldn't want to update the price even if it would change.
So for orders, such a snapshot and therefore an embedded document is a great way of relating the order
and the product because the product data might be duplicate but it doesn't need to change in the orders
collection because there, we want the snapshot.
So now I have my products in there and some user data, not all but some
and now I'll take my insertion code here and move that into this
then block after my const order thing and move this then block up.
So now the order is we get the cart which is essentially an array of products, we create an order with
that data,
then we insert this order into our orders collection, that's new, we need to insert that, we'd return the
result of that
and then here, we know that we were successful with inserting this and we clean up our existing cart.
With that,
let's test this. Let's go back to our application and add a couple of products to the cart,
let's say like this
and now let's click order now and I get an error, yeah because I need to return the result of this add
order thing
so that outside of add order, to be precise in my controller, I can call then on that.
So that needs to change,
so let me go back to my cart here,
it's actually deleted because we did write it to the database,
so if I do update orders, we actually can see it there.
This was our old order,
we can delete that with the trash
icon here, the second document is the new order we just added and there you see items indeed does have
all the enriched product information, the snapshots of our products and the quantity in there and we have
some user data.
So this works
and now with that little change I just made,
let's also see if that works again.
If I order now,
yes
now we get no error.
So now we can work on that cart page and on getting our order information.